what's up everyone welcome to video
number four in my
eight part series on how you launch a
podcast
in video number one i talked about why
you should launch a podcast
video number two i talked about some of
the prep work you should do before
jumping in
in the last video number three i talked
about the equipment
that you need in order to launch a
decent quality podcast
and in this video i am talking about the
script
the information that helps guide you
through your podcast episode
now this information is mostly for those
of you who are planning to launch a
podcast where you are
interviewing other people however
even if you're not doing that even if
you're the only one talking and you're
providing information
a script is still super important to
help guide you through the process and
give you some structure
and reminders of what you're going to
talk about what i don't want you to do
whether you're interviewing someone or
whether you're the only one speaking
is read off of a piece of paper word for
word
in fact i had the opportunity about
seven years ago i was interviewed by cbc
radio and i wrote out detailed notes a
full piece of paper
and i showed up with my piece of paper
to the interview
and the host took the piece of paper
from me
and he said what does this say and i
started to explain to him some of the
basics the bullet points of what i had
written down and he said
cool and he crumpled up that piece of
paper and threw it away
and he said you don't need that and i
was so stressed out i was shocked i
thought how could he do that
but he was right because if you are
sitting there
reading a piece of paper word by word
your audience can tell
even if your podcast isn't also recorded
on video even if it's only audio
people can still tell when you're
reading something
for example right now as i'm talking to
you i'm not reading a teleprompter
behind my camera
or reading something like that i am just
talking i am talking through what comes
through my head
however i have done some planning and
some structure
of what i want to talk to you about and
that is what a script is all about
it's those guiding ideas and thoughts
that help you transition from
one thing to the next now when it comes
to an
interview script there are a few things
to keep in mind
you probably want to keep a consistent
structure of
how you will introduce guests how you
will end your episode maybe your podcast
has an
introduction and i mentioned that in
video number two on prep of how you can
get an intro and an
outro done through websites like fiverr
maybe your podcast has something along
those lines
but maybe you are the one saying the
first little bit
i'll give you a quick example on the re
max hustle podcast
this is the intro to every episode that
comes
after the fiverr intro well hi there and
welcome to the re max hustle podcast my
name is wade patterson
i'm a franchise development consultant
with re max of western canada
and i'm your host for this audio
experience
the re max hustle podcast is all about
providing you with value by leveraging
the knowledge and expertise
of our remax network on this episode we
are joined by
and then i say the guest's name now i
have done that
so many times we're about 70 episodes in
that i don't even need a piece of paper
anymore
for the first 30 episodes i did i would
read that
script word for word because i wanted to
make sure that was accurate
but now it is ingrained in my head and
just like the intro we have an
outro as well where we say that we hope
that the audience got some value
thanks so much for listening we'll catch
them next time there's always that
intro and that outro that is similar
because there is something nice when
you're
a listener to a podcast you get excited
for your favorite podcast
and when it has that familiarity at the
beginning and that familiarity at the
end
there's something just very enjoyable
about listening
to that the second tip i have for you if
you are creating
a script for an interview where you
you're interviewing somebody else
is to create a kick-ass bio for that
person
now at the minimum level and this is my
biggest pet peeve
so many podcast hosts they do their
little introduction they say
all right jeff can you tell us a little
bit about who you are
and what brought you into this space in
the first place
that is just lazy that is lazy
jeff shouldn't have to explain why he is
there why you have invited him to be on
your podcast
you should be the one as the host of
your podcast who does that
for jeff now at the very minimum you can
go to jeff's website or whoever you're
interviewing and you can usually
find some bio information on that person
linkedin is another good resource you
have to do a little bit of stalking
cyber stalking maybe check out their
facebook
and get a bit of information on that
person
but i like to go further than that if
the person has been interviewed before
i'll do my research i'll watch a few
interviews that person has been in
and i will take notes and i will point
out different things
and in the bio i will incorporate some
of those fun
facts that maybe they've told in other
interviews
but i will bring those into the bio
before i even say jeff welcome to
my podcast i'm going to give you a quick
example of this i recently
interviewed somebody on my other podcast
slash youtube interview series called
show me the crypto
now this gentleman andrew levine had a
really interesting background he had so
many different careers in the past
before he got into blockchain technology
so watch this intro and watch his
reaction
to the intro well hi there and welcome
to
show me the crypto my name is wade
patterson and i'm all flanagreen
we're a couple friends from canada who
love learning about cryptocurrencies
and blockchain technology and we're
happy you're along for the ride
whether you're a crypto virgin or you
know your way around the block
we hope our interviews with some of the
most intelligent and influential people
in the space
help bring you value and on today's
episode
we are joined by andrew ceo of koinos
group
if you thought catch me a few cans frank
abagnale jr had an impressive resume
wait until you hear the list of
professions tackled by andrew levine
like abignale andrew was a lawyer but
beyond that
he also has a background in real estate
and he was a founder
and a crypto economist and a community
liaison and a head of communications and
advocacy
and now a ceo in 2016 andrew found his
footing in the crypto space via the
steam blockchain
first as a content creator then as a
steemit inc
employee after co-founder ned scott
announced he had sold steemit to tron
founder justin sun
andrew resigned but he maintains steam
is the greatest blockchain you've never
heard of andrew welcome to show me the
crypto
um happy to be here and uh
really humbled by that uh that summary
and that resume
that you just gave i i'm much more
impressed with myself now than i was
before
that's awesome well we're really excited
to have you on
and i want to go back to the beginning
of this timeline
of your introduction to not the crypto
space but open
source software because my understanding
is that happened when you were in law
school can you talk a little bit about
that
yeah sure i i'm just
so impressed by your research that i'm
having to like calibrate myself
take a step back in time yeah yeah
yeah usually i have to do all of this
recap and people like how did you get
started now i don't
have to do any of that you did such a
good job
so as you can see andrew was blown away
by that he was so impressed
because i had watched other youtube
videos and everyone had started
the conversations with andrew the same
they asked him to introduce himself
but if you were that host that
introduces your
guest and provides a few fun facts
they're going to be impressed right away
and that is going to help ease their
comfort and
make it an enjoyable interview and if
you're enjoying the interview
your audience is going to enjoy
listening to that interview
so when it comes to questions for the
interview
here's my other piece of advice prepare
more than you think you'll need i don't
want you to go
question 1 through ten and skip stick to
that script
religiously and not veer away from it no
it's a conversation
and you wanna be flexible enough to
think of clever follow-up questions
during the conversation
or maybe question number two was
actually
answered by the guest in the first
question
if that makes sense you don't want to
then just ask them something that
they've already told you
so you need to be actively listening
while you're interviewing someone
so that you know which questions to go
to but having more questions
than less will give you a security
blanket
i studied journalism and i remember my
very first practicum placement was at a
small town newspaper
and i had the chance to interview
somebody who had a career
in the oil field and i know nothing
about the oil industry
and i prepared six questions to ask this
individual
and i remember i asked question number
one which was a yes or no question
and the interviewee said no and then i
asked question number two
and the interviewee said sort of and
then i asked the third question and it
was another one word answer and pretty
soon i had asked all my questions
and that was the end of the interview
and i was so embarrassed i had to go
back to the newspaper try to write up an
800 word article
on the 10 answers or the 10 words that
person had given me
it was impossible i couldn't do it and
you don't want to run into that
situation if your guest is giving
short concise answers you want to make
sure
and and press them on those ask them
follow-up questions
or at least have enough questions at
your
fingertips that you don't run out of
things because if your show is typically
an hour
and then all of a sudden your episode
runs up after
15 minutes that's going to look odd when
a listener is going through all the
episodes they'll think why is this
episode
so much shorter than all the others to
avoid that you want to prepare with a
lot of questions
but be flexible enough to bounce around
one strategy that a lot of podcasts do
is they have some fun ending so maybe
it's the same
five questions or three questions that
they ask every single
guest two examples again reverting to
the two podcasts that i'm involved with
on the remax hustle podcast we ask every
guest what the re max hustle
tip is so when they need to accomplish a
task how do they get something
done when they really need to accomplish
that task and
that's great because now i have about 70
answers from various successful real
estate agents
and we've done other kind of cool
content spin-offs with that answer but
the
audience always knows that i will ask
that question at the end of an episode
on show me the crypto we have a couple
of fun questions that we asked we asked
what the price of bitcoin will be 10
years from now
who the person likes following in the
crypto space
and what an underrated coin or project
is that the audience will want to learn
about
again this familiarity and ending an
episode maybe it's a speed round that
you do or something along those lines or
maybe you roll a dice and ask them a
random question
make it fun make it light it's always
nice to
end the episode on that note and
something that the audience is
already aware of so those are my tips
for creating a script
i know that was focused on interviews if
you were doing a podcast or a youtube
series
where you are the person talking still
have your rough bullet points
don't read word for word everything
maybe the intro and the outro is word
for word
everything else should just be a couple
words that are reminders or
cues to you of what you're going to talk
about
but have that on a piece of paper so
that you can reference that
because so often when we get in front of
the camera or we get in front of the
microphone
we forget we are focused on what we are
doing and we don't always remember what
we wanted to talk about
so by having some notes whether you're
interviewing someone or whether you're
the one doing
all of the talking it's going to be so
helpful
i hope this fourth video on scripts and
how to write interview scripts and
podcast scripts was beneficial for you
if you like what you have just seen make
sure that you subscribe to my channel
my channel is all about impactful
communication
if you like this series on podcasting
hit that notification bell after you
subscribe because you don't want to miss
these future episodes i'm going to put
out
i'm going to talk about things like
syndication
and all of the other things that are
involved with a podcast
and leave a comment below like this
video do it all smash that like button
hey thank you for watching this i really
appreciate it
and i'll catch you on the next video